Update FAQ (#27)
dNationCloud/kubernetes-monitoring: helpers/FAQ.md

# Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

## How to interpret displayed monitoring values across different monitoring layers?

### Monitoring Layer 0
![l0](../docs/images/l0.png)

#### Kubernetes monitoring
Kubernetes cluster health is clearly represented by the single state panel. State panel aggregates alerts from the 
underlying layer of kubernetes monitoring. If the k8s cluster meets all defined thresholds the healthy 
status is visualized by the green state panel with the `OK` sign. When some threshold is reached and this state 
persist for **5** minutes (default) the relevant alert will be triggered and highlighted. The state panel with orange background 
and the `Warning` sign is displayed in case of warning alert and state panel with red background and the `Critical` sign in case of 
critical alert.  

> This simple and intuitive green, orange and red colors principle signalizing whether or not your action is needed. If you want to inspect what is going on with your k8s cluster, just drill down by right-click on 

Author: any suggestions?

> This simple and intuitive green, orange and red colors principle signalizing whether or not your action is needed. If you want to inspect what is going on with your k8s cluster, just drill down by right-click on 

Reviewer: Maybe someting like this: We have implemented intuitive green, orange and red color indicators that are signalizing if your action is needed or if everything is OK.

the relevant alert will be triggered and highlighted in alert panel and also the overall k8s health panel in the monitoring layer 0 is changed too.
The k8s cluster layer 1 is the source of all aggregated k8s cluster alerts triggered by dNation monitoring.
 
#### Alerts
The upper section shows the number of triggered critical and warning alerts. If you want to see detailed list of 
triggered alerts apply the drill down principle and see the list with detailed information.

#### Overview
The overview section allows you to monitor the health status of k8s nodes, workloads (deployments, stateful sets, daemon sets, pods, containers and more)
and persistent volumes. Each state panel aggregates important information of monitored k8s element e.g. single node health state panel 
gives you an insight if k8s nodes are able to schedule resources or if they are under disk, memory or PID pressure.

#### Control Plane Components
Monitoring of k8s cluster control plane components (api server, controller manager, etcd database, kubelet, proxy and scheduler) 
is located in the separate section. If you want to check the work queue rate of controller manager or scheduler latency this section

> is the right place to see.

Author: `etcd` i a name of database  https://etcd.io/

#### Node Metrics (including Master)
Measure k8s nodes system metrics is important in ensuring k8s cluster availability. Node Metrics section gives you a clear overview
of cluster's CPU, memory, disk and network utilization. Each system metric is visualized in several state panels such as overall (average) utilization panel, the most utilized cluster node panel and information panels which show
used and total state of system metric. It is always useful to know overall cluster utilization 
but also it is important to know when one node is more utilized then others which may indicates that your
k8s cluster does not work properly. 
If you want to drill down for further investigation of your k8s node you can select between `System Overview` or `K8s Overview` buttons.
`System Overview` shows what you expected i.e. CPU, memory, disk and network utilization per k8s cluster node in detail.         
`K8s Overview` shows system resources usage in k8s oriented way, it means that you can filter particular k8s workload per k8s cluster node

> or see information about CPU and memory requests and limits.

Author: Should be total.

panels are separated into several logical sections:
- Alerts
- Host
- Applications (optional)

When some failed condition of monitored element occurs, state panel shows lower percentage value of health. If the health state is too 
low and value reached defined warning or even critical threshold level then the corresponding state panel change background color.
Simple and intuitive green, orange and red colors principle is used. When failed state persist for **5** minutes (default) then 
the relevant alert will be triggered and highlighted in alert panel and also the overall host health panel in the monitoring layer 0 is changed too.
The host layer 1 is the source of all aggregated host alerts triggered by dNation monitoring.

#### Alerts
The upper section shows the number of triggered critical and warning alerts. If you want to see detailed list of 
triggered alerts apply the drill down principle and see the list with detailed information. 

#### Host
Host section gives you a clear overview of host's CPU, memory, disk and network utilization.
Each system metric is visualized in several state panels. The main host overall utilization panel and information panels which show

> used and total state of system metric.

Author: Should be total.

#### Applications
In order to thoroughly understand application health, we created custom dashboards which help us to
deeply understand and diagnose host applications. Currently, we designed several dashboards such cadvisor.
Layer 1 state panels aggregate important information of monitored application, green, orange and red colors principle 
inform us if there is some action needed and drill down principle can be used to access rich and detailed application dashboard. 

- If you want to customize your L1 layer by custom host monitoring template definition, see [How to customize my host monitoring?](#how-to-customize-my-host-monitoring) section.

> - If you are interested in the host application monitoring, see [How to set up host application monitoring?](#how-to-set-up-host-application-monitoring) section.

Author: Should be `how-to-set-up-host-application-monitoring`

### Host monitoring lower layers
If you want to know details why is some stats panel in upper layer green, orange or red, just drill down and click it.

> See some examples from layer 2 of host monitoring:

Author: Should be k8s

| Host Detail  | Application |
|:----------:|:------------------:|
| ![l2_host_node](../docs/images/l2_host_node.png)  | ![l2_host_app](../docs/images/l2_host_app.png) |

## How to set up k8s cluster monitoring?
### Prerequisites
Install dNation k8s monitoring on k8s cluster, see [here](https://github.com/dNationCloud/kubernetes-monitoring#full-installation). 
### Set up
K8s cluster monitoring is enabled by default. See the [docs](https://dnationcloud.github.io/kubernetes-monitoring/docs/documentation/#clustermonitoring):
```yaml
clusterMonitoring:
  enabled: true
  clusters:
  - name: K8sCluster
    description: 'Kubernetes cluster monitoring'
    apps: []
```
It means that your k8s cluster is monitored right after installation of dNation k8s monitoring.
If you want to customize k8s cluster monitoring see [How to customize my k8s monitoring?](#how-to-customize-my-k8s-monitoring) section.

## How to customize my k8s monitoring?

> We understand that each k8s cluster may contain various workloads, or may have configured various scaling strategies.
> We tried to do our best and set up suitable defaults based on our production environment experiences, but we understand that 
> we could not cover variety of k8s cluster configurations. Based on above, we implemented the template logic that allows you to
> fully customize the default state panels or alerts and also you can create your own to fulfill your k8s cluster monitoring requirements.
> Currently, layer 1 customization is implemented. The templating of other layers is under development.
> For full list of k8s templates see the [docs](https://dnationcloud.github.io/kubernetes-monitoring/docs/documentation/#templates).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We understand that each k8s cluster may contain various workloads or implement various scaling strategies.
We tried to do our best and set up suitable defaults based on our production environment experiences, but we know that 
isn't possible cover the variety of k8s cluster configurations. To tackle this problem, we implemented template logic that allows you to
fully customize the default state panels or alerts. You can also create your own to fulfill your k8s cluster monitoring requirements.
Currently only first layer is customizable, however, the templating of other layers is under development.
For full list of k8s templates see the [docs](https://dnationcloud.github.io/kubernetes-monitoring/docs/documentation/#templates).
```

> If you want to customize some existing (default) layer 1 template in k8s monitoring just create a simple yaml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to customize default layer 1 template in k8s monitoring just create a simple yaml file:
```

```yaml
templates:
  k8s:
    # Override stats panel title and warning thresholds for the etcd health panel
    etcdHealth:
      panel:
        title: "Custom Title"
        thresholds:
          warning: 96
      alert:
        thresholds:
          warning: 96
```

> Each state panel which can be modified contains a template name in its description for easy navigation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each state panel that can be modified contains a template name in its description for easy navigation:
```

        namespaceSelector:  # Namespaces to transfer from the kubernetes service to the target
          matchNames:
          - default
        selector:  # Label selector for services to which this ServiceMonitor applies
          matchLabels:
            app: flask-app
        # Endpoints of the selected service to be monitored
        # ref: https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/master/Documentation/api.md#endpoint
        endpoints:
        - targetPort: metrics  # Name or number of the endpoint's target port
          path: /metrics  # HTTP path to scrape for metrics
```

Application monitoring definition contains two main sections: `template` and `serviceMonitor` or `podMonitor` respectively.
The `template` section defines which template and pre-defined application dashboard will be used.
For full list of pre-defined k8s application templates see the [docs](https://dnationcloud.github.io/kubernetes-monitoring/docs/documentation/#k8sapps).
Application monitoring metrics endpoint is auto-discovered by [service monitor](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/master/Documentation/api.md#servicemonitor) 

> or [pod monitor](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/master/Documentation/api.md#podmonitor) CRDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or by [pod monitor](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/master/Documentation/api.md#podmonitor) CRDs.
```

```
- If you want to customize the default application template see [How to customize my k8s monitoring?](#how-to-customize-my-k8s-monitoring) section.

## How to set up host monitoring?
### Prerequisites
Enable or install [node exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter) in your host. You can use `helpers/node_exporter.sh` installation script.
### Set up
Host monitoring is disabled by default. See the [docs](https://dnationcloud.github.io/kubernetes-monitoring/docs/documentation/#hostmonitoring).
To enable it just create host monitoring definition as follows:
```yaml
hostMonitoring:
  enabled: true
  hosts:
  - name: host-01
    description: Host 01
    jobName: host-01
    host:
      address: 1.1.1.1  # Host IP address
    serviceMonitor:
      endpoints:
      - port: 9100  # Node exporter port
        path: /metrics  # Node exporter metrics path
```
Host monitoring definition contains two main sections: `host` and `serviceMonitor`.
The `host` section simply defines the host IP address. The `serviceMonitor` defines [service monitor](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/master/Documentation/api.md#servicemonitor)

> CRD endpoint i.e. the host's node exporter port and path. Lot of service monitor parameters are pre-configured to simplify host monitoring configuration, if you are interested how, or you want to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CRD endpoint i.e. the host's node exporter port and path. Lot of service monitor parameters are pre-configured to simplify host monitoring configuration. If you are interested how or you want to 
```

override some of these parameters see the `chart/templates/hosts` directory. 

Finally, update your k8s monitoring deployment and apply the host monitoring configuration:
```bash
helm upgrade [RELEASE] [CHART] -f host.yaml
```

## How to customize my host monitoring?
To cover variety of host configurations we implemented the template logic in the host monitoring as well. Templates allow you to

> fully customize the default state panels or alerts and also you can create your own to fulfill your host monitoring requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fully customize the default state panels or alerts. You can also create your own to fulfill your host monitoring requirements.
```

Currently, layer 1 customization is implemented. For full list of host templates see the [docs](https://dnationcloud.github.io/kubernetes-monitoring/docs/documentation/#templates).

> If you want to customize some existing (default) layer 1 template in host monitoring just create a simple yaml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to customize default layer 1 template in host monitoring just create a simple yaml file:
```

```yaml
templates:
  host:
    # Override warning thresholds for the CPU utilization panel
    overallUtilizationCPU:
      panel:
        thresholds:
          warning: 50
      alert:
        thresholds:
          warning: 50
```

> Each state panel which can be modified contains a template name in its description for easy navigation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each state panel that can be modified contains a template name in its description for easy navigation:
```

![l1_host_cpu_hover.png](../docs/images/l1_host_cpu_hover.png)

Finally, update your k8s monitoring deployment and override the default monitoring configuration:
```bash
helm upgrade [RELEASE] [CHART] -f override.yaml
```
If you want to create your own custom template see full examples in the `helpers` directory.
## How to set up host application monitoring?
### Prerequisites
Enable or install metrics exporter in your host application.
### Set up

> Hots application monitoring is disabled by default. See the [docs](https://dnationcloud.github.io/kubernetes-monitoring/docs/documentation/#hostmonitoring).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hosts application monitoring is disabled by default. See the [docs](https://dnationcloud.github.io/kubernetes-monitoring/docs/documentation/#hostmonitoring).
```

To enable it just create application monitoring definition as follows:
```yaml
hostMonitoring:
  enabled: true
  hosts:
  - name: host-01
    description: 'Host 01 with application monitoring'
    apps:
    - name: host-01-docker
      description: Host 01 Docker Containers
      jobName: host-01-docker
      templates:
        cAdvisor:  # Application Exporter template
          enable: true
      serviceMonitor:
        endpoints:
        - port: 9101  # Application exporter port
          path: /metrics  # Application exporter metrics path
```

Application monitoring definition contains two main sections: `template` and `serviceMonitor`.
The `template` section defines which template and pre-defined application dashboard will be used.

> For full list of pre-defined host application templates see [docs](https://dnationcloud.github.io/kubernetes-monitoring/docs/documentation/#hostapps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For full list of pre-defined host application templates see the [docs](https://dnationcloud.github.io/kubernetes-monitoring/docs/documentation/#hostapps).
```

The `serviceMonitor` defines [service monitor](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/master/Documentation/api.md#servicemonitor)

> CRD endpoint i.e. the application's exporter port and path. Lot of service monitor parameters are pre-configured to simplify application monitoring configuration, if you are interested how, or you want to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CRD endpoint, i.e. the application's exporter port and path. Lot of service monitor parameters are pre-configured to simplify application monitoring configuration. If you are curious how or you want to 
```

override some of these parameters see the `chart/templates/hosts` directory or find some examples in `helpers` directory.

Finally, update your k8s monitoring deployment and apply the application monitoring configuration:
```bash
helm upgrade [RELEASE] [CHART] -f apps.yaml
```

> - If you want to customize the default application template see [How to customize my host monitoring?](#how-to-customize-my-host-monitoring) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you want to customize the default application template see the [How to customize my host monitoring?](#how-to-customize-my-host-monitoring) section.
```

## Kubernetes Monitoring shows `DOWN` state for some control plane components. Are control plane components working correctly?

> Control plane components work probably well, but their metrics server is disabled or misconfigured.
> You have to check address bindings of control plane components' metrics as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Control plane components work probably well, but their metrics server might be disabled or misconfigured.
You should want  to check address bindings of control plane components' metrics as follows:
```

kubeadm init --config=helpers/kubeadm_init.yaml
```

Manual set up in case of already running K8s deployment.

> 

Reviewer: setup is correct
